[MUSIC]
[SOUND] This lecture's about accessing the
GPIO pins that we've been talking about.
Accessing them through a Python program.
So, Python's the language we're using.
We'll basically go through the functions
that you use to access those pins.
And by access, I mean to write to those
pins and to read from those pins.
So, let's look from
the Python point of view.
First thing you need to do is you
need to use the GPIO library.
So Python for Raspberry Pi has a GPIO
library just for controlling and
observing these pins.
So, you're gonna have to use that.
So, that means at the beginning of your
Python program you're going to have to
import the library.
So, import Rpi.GPIO as GPIO.
What this does is it imports
this library called Rpi.GPIO.
And by saying as GPIO it gives it that
name GPIO, it's sort of a shorter name.
So that when you refer to
it later in your code,
you can just say GPIO
instead of saying Rpi.GPIO.
So that's just a shorthand.
So first, you import that.
That'll be your first line of code.
Then you're gonna write a script,
write a Python program that does
whatever you want it to do.
So remember when you write this program,
the first line's the import.
When you write this program and
you want to execute it once
you are done writing it.
When you execute it you need to have
root permission when you execute it.
So, this is one of the constraints
on Raspberry Pi and
a lot of systems,
specifically with operating systems.
Basically it's considered unsafe to allow
the regular user to manipulate the pins,
to do low-level hardware manipulation.
This is a common thing.
Operating systems often basically guard,
protect the low-level hardware
from the user, right?
So, the idea is maybe you don't trust
the user, the user might mess things up.
Now, of course, we need to use the pins,
so you need to override that.
So what you do is, you have to become root
just for the execution of this program.
To become root for
the execution of one program you use sudo.
So you type sudo.
You prefix your command with that.
Let's say your program type is
called test or something like that.
So you type Python three test
to run it at the command line.
Now you're gonna type sudo Python
three test, and that will run it, but
it will run it as root.
So you'll actually have sufficient
permission to actually go ahead and
manipulate the pins.
Inside your program,
first thing you're gonna need to do
is select your pin numbering mode.
So these pins, they have numbers, clearly.
But they have multiple pin numberings,
two that we're gonna talk about.
There're two different
ways to number these pins.
And you have to define that at
the beginning before you can even
refer to the pins in your code.
So, the first way is to number the pins
based on their order in the board,
the order in the headers on the board.
So, if you look at the picture up here,
that means the numbers in the circles,
okay?
One, two, three, four, five,
six, they're just counting them
off as they appear on the board.
So, those are shown in circles,
and that's one way to do it,
according to the numbering on the board.
So that's the board way of numbering it.
The other way is to use
the Broadcom SoC number.
SoC standing for system on chip.
So, that's from the perspective of
the chip of the microcontroller,
what the numbers are from
that point of view.
And those are shown in
the rectangles after GPIO.
So, for instance a pin that says GPIO
three, it's number three, right?
GPIO five, it's number five, and so on.
So that's a different numbering.
So, you gotta select the mode, which
one of those two modes you wanna use or
else you can't refer to the pins.
So you use GPIO.setmode to do that.
In this case, this line up here we're
saying GPIO.setmode(GPIO.BOARD).
So GPIO.BOARD means the numbering that
we're using is the board based numbering.
The numbers in the circles, right?
That's one way to number.
And that's how you would do it.
You do that at the beginning of your code.
Another numbering mode is the BCM mode,
Broadcom SoC numbering mode.
Now that, like I said,
the number after the word GPIO on
the pin name in the rectangles.
So ,you can use that too.
You can just give as
an argument to the setmode,
you give GPIO.BCM and
they'll use that numbering.
It's sometimes nice, but
the catch with that is that it can change
from model to model of the Raspberry Pi.
So, we're gonna end up
using the GPIO.Board, but
note that you could use either
numbering that you wanted to use.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]